# PRISM Mediator

[Mediators](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#mediator) play a critical role in identity wallets, particularly in the context of mobile devices, because mobile devices don’t typically have static IP addresses. They might be offline or turned off, making it difficult to establish direct connections between different parties in the ecosystem and ensure [DIDComm](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#didcomm) message delivery. As a result, the mediator must [relay](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#relay), store, and forward messages between parties.

In decentralized identity infrastructure, a mediator can act as an intermediary between the [holder](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#holder)'s device and other entities in the ecosystem, such as [issuers](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#issuer) and [verifiers](/documentation/docs/concepts/glossary.md#verifier). For example, when a holder requests a credential from an issuer, the mediator can mediate or relay the requests between the holder and the issuer. When the holder presents a credential to a verifier, the mediator can again act as an intermediary that mediates or relays the requests between the holder and the verifier. Using a mediator and relays, identity wallets can ensure that all transactions are securely communicated between the various parties. At the same time, holders have control over their data and identities. Mediators, relays, and identity wallets can provide security and trust while ensuring the system is scalable and efficient.

The PRISM mediator is a critical component of the Atala PRISM suite. Without a centralized authority, it enables secure communication between different entities in the Atala PRISM ecosystem, such as holders, issuers, and verifiers.